We're gonna talk about React Query which
is new to version eight of this course.
I kind of held off on doing it for
a while, I had been using it myself and
my personal projects but
it felt kind of optional,
not totally best case and
I think the react community has moved far
enough along that react query
is not really optional anymore.
Basically everybody uses it all the time.
So you know that all that increment,
the rigmarole that we did in the use
breed this to capture this use cash and
all this kind of stuff,
where it makes request to an API and then
it caches it and if it's in the cache and
it serves that if it's not react
courageous does all this stuff for you.
It is just like, here's the key,
here's the URL, here's a refetch method,
that's it.
And then react query just
handles everything for you.
So, that's what we're gonna use today.
The cool thing about
React Query is it's now just,
it's not just react now it works
in angular, it works in svelte.
I think they're making it in solid,
they're doing a bunch of stuff now.
So it now exists outside of just react,
which is pretty cool.
And here is the secret for
writing long term maintainable React code.
The hardest part about React is useEffect.
The most bugs you're gonna see
the most confusing thing about
wrapping your head about when
does this effect happen?
Does this cascade into other effects
which then cascade into other effects?
It's the most cognitively burdensome
part of React useEffect, right?
Like describing to a person is
like the full lifecycle of how
breed gets populated is several sentences
with probably several caveats, right?
The nice thing about React Query is it
you're gonna start removing effects from
your database cuz it's basically going
to handle all your API requests for you.
So, here's my very loose rule that
I would like to throw out to you.
Minimize effects in your code.
If there's a library that can
handle it for you, do that.
Where you have effects, try and
contain them to small testable areas.
This is the secret to a long
happy life with React.
Okay, so I'm gonna show you how
to do that with your API request,
which is 95% the use case for
effects anyway.
So, I want you to npm i
@tanstack/react-query@4.10.1.
If you do npm instal just react-query,
you'll get version three,
they've released version four.
They now do it on this tanstack.
Name space, okay?
Start my server again.
Okay, the first thing that we're
gonna have to do is an app.jsx.
We have to instantiate the query provider.
So up here please go and
say import (QueryClient,
QueryClientProvider) from
'attanstack/react-query.
Here we're going to create our client,
const queryClient.
There is a thought process we could have
multiple query clients throughout your
app, that maybe different
parts of your app need to make
requests to the same place and
you don't want them to share a cache.
I have no idea when I would ever
want that, but it is possible.
It's one of those times that I just feel
like less flexibility is helpful here.
But no one asked me.
All right, so you're gonna say
queryClient=new QueryClient.
We have to give it a Config,
defaultOptions,
queries, and so
basically it's gonna ask us like hey,
how long do you want me to
cache things for our pet API,
and for our breeds lists,
and everything like that?
I'm not anticipating the new pets
coming up for adoption every second.
That is probably fine for
as long as the user is on a session.
So the way that you say that is you
say that the cash time is infinity.
Again, staleTime and cashTime is infinity.
Now, if you wanted to like cache for
like 10 minutes, you could put that here.
I can't remember it's in milliseconds,
right?
So if I wanted 10 minutes I would do
1000 *60, *10, right?
This would cash it for 10 minutes,
but I don't want that.
I'm telling you, it's like once you
fetch something, don't refetch it.
It's what I'm saying here.
Same thing with cashTime, staleTime,
both the same thing there.
All right, so inside (BrowserRouter),
please put this component
<QueryClientProvider.
This works the same way as our
BrowserRouter that it provides context
whenever we're going to
do the use query later.
And the client= queryClient, like that.
Okay, and
then move your whole app inside of that.
People will call things like
(BrowserRouter) and (QueryClientProvider),
higher header components that they're
basically like wrapping components
that they themselves don't
display anything, right?
Just because I put this
(QueryClientProvider) around my
application it's not displaying anything,
right?
All it's doing is providing context
to components underneath it,
that's the whole idea here.
It's kind of an awkward API, but it's also
like maybe there's a part of my app that I
don't want that context available to,
you can only wrap certain parts of it.
There's ideas like that.
Okay, so
now we have a QueryClient available to us.
Let's go write a method for fetching pets.
This is what it's going to call on
details.JSX, so that we can go and
get the individual pet
that we're looking at.
So please create a file
called FetchPet.js again,
you can call it jsx this
is gonna to be no JSX and
here is just gonna be a method of fetching
const Fetchpet=an async (QueryKey).
And then const id =queryKey(1).
We'll see where that comes from in just
a second, but just believe me for a second
that this is an array and the second
the one element is going to be the id.
Const apiRes = await fetch
(http://petsv2.dev-apis.com/pets?=(id).
That's gonna go fetch your pet for us.
Then this is a thing
peculiar to React Query.
If it's an unsuccessful request,
they want you to throw an error.
Fetch will not always throw
an error if you get like 500.
If it's a 500, we wanna throw an error.
So you're gonna say, hey,
if apiaraes.okay then throw new error,
and just give yourself
a useful error message.
So the one that I put here as
(details/s(id) fetch not ok).
This is purely for debugging purposes, so
just give yourself a useful error there.
This is useful because then
React Query's gonna catch this and
it's gonna know like
this doesn't work and.
You can now do like an on error and
a bunch of stuff like that.
This is something if you're
gonna use React query,
just get used to,
you'll put this in basically every time.
Okay, and then React Query expects
you to return a promise, right?
If you remember async functions always
return promises, so we're good so far.
So we don't have to await the Res.json,
we can just return the apiRes.json.
Because what is this return?
This return is a, it's a promise, right?
You can see right there, it's a promise.
What happens if I didn't return await?
It'll work just fine but
technically we don't have to await here so
you'd actually miss a tick if
the word tick doesn't mean anything,
it's a no term don't
worry about it [LAUGH].
But you'd basically
unnecessarily introduce like
a millisecond of latency in
there Just a common thing that
I see when people are writing React query,
okay, and
then down here we're gonna
say export default fetchPet.
Looks like I have an error here.
I do.
That should be there.
Yeah, there we go.
I had the backtick in the wrong place here
this is now a fetch method that is ready
to be used with React Query.